Hey folks! John Thompson Spring Framework Guru here.
So I wanna ask you is your IDE free like a puppy?
So this is my new puppy, Woody.
So he's a Hungarian Beesley. He's just three months old.
And what if I were to give you Woody for free.
Absolutely free.
Would he be really free for you?
I mean think about it? You're going to give him shots. You're going to have to take care of him.
You definitely are going to have to feed him.
Who's going to be going to the vet for different things.
You got to play with and keep him entertained.
So anything but free.
So you get to spending a lot of money on a free puppy. And that's what
I mean about is your IDE free like a puppy?
So that's common say saying here in the States about being free like a puppy. Your IDE selection is
gonna cost you in different ways.
I get a lot of people say oh IntelliJ is way too expensive.
Well, is it really?
So think about this case. About several months ago, let's get this guy down. So months ago, I was on a client's site
and working on a project and went through an upgraded versions of software like i do periodically. So I brought everything
up to current releases.
And when the project came back up and refresh or re-index, IntelliJ kinda lost the mind. I couldn't find
any of the classes.
All the spring classes just weren't there.
They weren't coming and they weren't importing. So I was like OK.
See some weird stuff in IntelliJ happen like this every now and then.
So I went in and I re-indexed the project. So you got to the file and validate caches and restart.
It tells IntelliJ to re-index project.
Usually when something weird starts happening, this will clear it right up and everything goes back to
normal.
In this case it did not.
So worked on this for 10 15 minutes trying to figure it out and it's like it was just bizarre because
IntelliJ just wasn't seeing any of the classes in the jars.
So I opened up a support ticket with Jet brains saying, hey this is happening.
And in three minutes, I got an email back. You can hear my puppy growling in the background. In three minutes
we had an email back saying, yeah there's a problem.
It's a problem with the latest release of Gradle.
It broke how IntelliJ picks up the classpath and all the jars in the class. So, hey! So, three minutes later, we had a
solution to my problem.
So things like this, not only the productivity features  inside of IntelliJ, it's that support. When you're
out at the client site working for a client and they're expecting results and you need to deliver, when
you do run into a problem in IntelliJ. It is pretty rare but it does happen.
You need that support they are right there.
So I had a solution in just three minutes. So IntelliJ support is outstanding.
Now think about it.
If I was on a free IDE. Where's my support? I'm going to be hosting in stack overflow. You are gonna be searching
Google, trying to figure out what's going on.
So that is gonna cost you. That's gonna be a hidden cost.
Another hidden cost is all all the productivity features inside of IntelliJ. Things that make you
able to work and produce code faster.
Again, free IDE isn't gonna be having the same pace of innovation that a commercial IDE is going to
have.
So the guys at Jet Brains are continually innovating.
They've got some really cool features coming up.
I enjoy it because I can say on the AP releases quite often just to see all the new stuff coming because
of their support for Java and Spring keeps getting better. Support for new languages, new libraries, keeps
getting better. Where if you're on a free IDE, you're at the whims of the community.
And also if you run into problems,
Good luck! Who you're gonna to call? Who you're gonna email? Who's gonna respond to you in just
three minutes.
So that's where a subscription to IntelliJ, when you are working in the field as a professional, it
is absolutely worth it.
So that's why I call free IDEs are free like a puppy.